Bear with me.
Did you catch all that that we were doing?
Yeah.
I have covered eight books of The Unvanquished.
We have had eight Unvanquished.
Let's go for just three more.
Are you on?
I want to go three more Unvanquished, and then we will run out the Brodsky collection of first and second printings of the hardback of The Unvanquished from 1938.
Here's copy nine on its free front end paper and pencil.
Malcolm Cowley, August 1945.
All right.
Now.
What makes this book a little more scintillating than that is this one says on its title page in black ink for Malcolm Cowley, William Faulkner, Sherman, Connecticut, 25 October 1948.
Is this a first?
This is a first edition.
Second printing, sorry.
First edition, second printing.
The dates sound like it might be after the... Well, but he didn't meet Cowley until 48.
Well, that's because he was doing the portable Flockner.
He did it in 45, but he never really met... Cowley was bringing him back.
Cowley was, and that's why this is so significant.
Really, that's why... But these... I've got one to show you yet.
It's more significant than that.
And if, in fact, Cowley never met him until he met him in New York in 48 and took him home for the weekend to his home in Sherman, Connecticut, where he'd meet his wife...
Malcolm's Life, Muriel.
What's the date that it said?
48.
25 October, 1948, OCT.
But this book is wonderful.
It's absolutely wonderful.
It's a great artifact.
How much would this bring in the book market?
25?
30?
Maybe?
Who knows?
Who gives to you?
Didn't Malcolm Cowley do a Faulkner file?
Yeah, he did.
He published his correspondence.
I have a great correspondence from Malcolm Cowley between himself and me.
I cherish it.
Malcolm Cowley edited Mississippi Vistas.
I have that edited copy that I cherish.
Somewhere I've got it.
I don't know where.
Okay, that's copy nine in the non-duplicates.
Here's copy ten.
This one...
Is called... This is called what?
An advanced review copy.
And it's got its price laid in with all its description.
And it's got a promo photo laid in that was contemporary.
And that makes this a very nice book because it's not only an inscription.
Do you know which critic it went to?
I don't know which one this went to.
Can I just see the review slip?
Yeah, sure.
This will go to the next page.
I don't know, but in some of the... We do have review copies that we do know to whom it went.
But that gives you your publication date.
Straight reading from Faulkner, and one of the finest books he has yet written.
It covers the latter days of the Civil War, when the Yankees destroyed the plantation without the spirit of the indomitable Sartorist family in Mississippi.
Many of the chapters appeared originally in magazines, but Faulkner has largely rewritten them, and this record of the Vagin Sartorists' is now a continued narrative packed with war, the romance human bubble coach, with illustrations by Edward
shunton s-h-e-n-t-o-n and they did a limited signed now you have to realize that faulkner's reputation was waning in terms of sales at this point though critically it was real high so they only published 250 of the sign limited of that and i had the sign limited and i'll show you that too right that's i know what that's all about but this is oh i'm sorry excuse me this is a very pretty very handsome sign limited but limited only 250 copies because no one was buying faulkner
And that would be what a collector would have.
Now, a collector, a normal collector, Carter Burden, most likely would have this.
Carter might have a signed one, maybe, but no one else will.
Peterson may have had one inscribed, unvanquished.
What do we do, a dozen of these, by the way?
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, twelve.
No, ten, you've done eleven.
Here comes twelve.
That one's different.
Let's call those the trade.
These are all the trade, and you might say, understandably, they're all the same.
Well, I've given you 11 distinctions.
Let me give you the 12th one.
This one is inscribed on the free front end paper in brown ink to Phil Stone from William Faulkner, Oxford Miss, 20 Janney, 1938.
Well, isn't that interesting?
Didn't we see another book, 20 Janney?
How about the Tootsie Brown copy?
See, one of the things Bob and I are going to do is get all these inscribed books isolated, too.
We really don't have any help.
Don't move for a second.
The machine is running.
All right, I'm trying to find the Tootsie Brown copy that I gave him.
It's pretty far as close.
It's down.
Here may be the Tootsie.
Now, that says 1938 from Cho-Cho to Tootsie, but here, look at what this says.
I'm listening.
Just talk to me.
This says, interestingly enough, the copy that he gave...
Want to hold that one?
The copy that he gave to Tutsi, it'll be nice to get a picture together.
December, I think this is... Okay, read that one.
Oh, what do I got here, January?
Janney.
Yeah, yeah.
I think this is... That's 20 Janney.
You're right, that's a month before.
20 December.
Yeah, huh.
Well, that's a year before, almost.
That's January of 38th.
Oh, you're right.
You're absolutely right.
But this is when Tutsi came to visit at Roanoke.
She came to visit Victoria.
So I met Tutsi just by accident, really, here in St.
Louis.
Victoria had told me she was here.
Remember I met her?
I said here.
I'm not in St.
Louis.
But look at this.
I mean, where are you going to find inscriptions like this?
These books are just, they're one-of-a-kind artifacts.
And I went to find them all.
Don't pay any attention to me.
Just talk.
Okay.
I'm going to show you some more highlights soon.
I'm going to put these away.
But now, Nick, there are 12 copies there, and all 12 of those copies are different.
Some are associations, some are inscribed.
I'm here.
Will you give me those, and I'll put them back, and I'll show them some more.
You just said you could do a run like that on every single title.
On every title, I could show you 12, 15, 20 books that all look like they're the same.
that all are associations or presentations or inscription copies that make each one distinct.
So while condition, say, on these three hamlets that I'm just pointing at would be nice, it's quite irrelevant to the importance of the book.
That's another good question.
Most collectors would pass on items like the ones I showed you because they didn't have their dust jackets because they were in shabby shape.
What a terrible mistake to pass on a book of John Chiardi's.
We can't blame John if he decided to... Well, if he read it.
If he read it, and then put some coffee down beside it, I mean, who gives a damn?
But indeed, condition is important.
Each book in this collection has a representative copy of a first, or of a significant book that is in scillating shape.
I have those too, but I never... One of the things I had to learn as a collector early on, no, not early on, later on,
Once I got into the world-class material, you don't argue with what's in front of you.
If a dog bit the spine, you take it.
I have one that the dog bit the spine that's an inscribed presentation copy from Faulkner to his stepson Malcolm.
Was I going to refuse to buy the copy from Malcolm because he said here it's a little bad?
Let me show you a better example of that.
Malcolm Cowley wrote me the most touching letter when I wrote him once.
I'd seen him have been with him.
He said, you're going to be disappointed.
He said, yes, I do have some Faulkner books left.
And he said, I have one that I know you're not going to want.
It's a copy that I've gone around to the various universities and used.
It's my teaching copy.
He said, it's real shabby and all messed up.
This is Malcolm Cowley.
Malcolm Cowley wrote me and said, you're not going to want this, but if you do, I'll send it to you.
He said, it's got Scotch tape on the dust jacket and everything else and I've carried it around with me.
But I'll send it to you if you want it, and you can have it for $500.
He wasn't being that naive then, was he?
No, he wasn't.
But the copy he sent to me is the portable Faulkner on the title page inscribed from Malcolm Cowley, William Faulkner, Sherman, Connecticut, 25 October 1948.
I wonder why he carried that one around.
Well, it's a very interesting thing.
That's the kind you would almost keep as an artifact.
Why would he carry that from Connecticut?
Well, there is an interesting answer to that, and I'm going to tell you a story about that that just came to my mind.
When I bought my first marble fawn, I told you about that.
I had an opportunity.
I take that back.
It was in one of the Goodwin sales.
It was in the Goodwin sale that came up in 78, 980.
I can't remember now, 77 or 8.
I bought a number of inscribed books that were Malcolm Cowley's books out of that Jonathan Goodwin sale.
But one classic book that was offered was a copy of the Portable Faulkner.
From 1946, contemporaneous with the publication Faulkner's inscription to Malcolm.
And I said, oh, I want that book so much.
And I took out a bigger loan at that time.
At that point, I'd already gotten real gutsy because I'd already become a world-class Faulkner collector.
Bought a bunch of books inscribed to Cowley and a bunch of other nice things.
But I didn't have the guts to go for that one book that brought about eight or $9,000 in that sale.
That was the 1946 copy, and I lamented terribly.
I thought, oh, the one book I really want, sure, the one book I really want, I will never see.
I will never see.
So I became friendly with Malcolm.
He and I corresponded.
I met him.
I was with him.
We were good friends.
He edited one of my poetry books.
And then I had that classic letter in our correspondence.
in which he wrote me, and he sent me two books.
He said, I've actually got two books left.
He was so impressed, Nick, that I had bought all the books out of the Goodwin sale because he said, oh, my God, I remember when I sold those to Henry Wenning in New Haven because I had no money.
Well, now, Henry Wenning was the same man who taught me how to collect books.
Okay, so years later, I buy the Cowley books now.
For instance, may I just interrupt?
Go ahead.
It has his annotations in here, of course, and here he's written, end of sentence, better than 8,000 words.
All right.
He would have probably used that book since 1946 over the time Fawker signed it.
He may not have continued to use it that much after Fawker signed it, but a lot of that wear and tear on the book may have been from 1946 to 1948.
He told me in that letter that he carried this one around with it.
Well, it looks for sure.
Well, let me tell you what.
He didn't carry the other one around with him.
He sold it.
Point is, that sold for about 8,000 bucks, and I lamented in that sale, oh, gosh, the one book that would have really made this Faulkner collection a capstone, or that would have been a capstone in it.
And so I had to live with that little lament, and as an obsessive collector, it would have stayed in my craw.
I met Malcolm, and in 1981 or two, in a letter that he wrote back to me, he said, OLD,
Oh, Lewis.
He called me Lewis.
By the way, I just remembered, I do have two Faulkner books still in my library.
And furthermore, he sent me his whole shelf.
Two shelves of Faulkner of his own annotated copies.
His review copies and his annotated copies.
I acquired all his books.
Malcolm Cowley certainly understood the importance of books as artifacts.
Well, he also was a pragmatic Yankee.
Was he selling?
He needed money all the time.
He lived.
He was a freelance critic.
That's how he made his livelihood.
He sent me, in this collection, have to be at least 50 wonderful Cowley books with annotations of his.
I'm off the track.
In this collection, because I found that it was terribly important, once he and I started collecting, no collector would have got all those books.
They wouldn't have wanted them.
I have all of Kleanth Brooks' annotated copies, about 250 strong, from his library of all his Faulkner books.
They're here?
They're here.
They're wonderful.
I've got all of Joe Blotner's books annotated.
I've got some Chiardi, George Marion O'Donnell.
C-I-A-R-D-I.
Let me show you the other book that Malcolm sent me.
He said, I know you're not going to want this one, but I do have one that you might share.
In fact, of course, this one is just her, the one I just showed you.
That's magnificent.
Let me show you another one.
Give me a half tray.
Let me see if I can
Look at this one.
This is, again, one of the absolutely premier collector's books in this collection.
And I believe it's this one.
Look at that binding.
Yeah, the binding's beautiful.
Oh, but gosh, I'm a collector.
There's no dust jacket.
Who would want this book?
Well, who would want this book?
When Cowley was doing his portable Faulkner, writing that scintillating introduction, he wrote that he himself
and he went on record with this, said he couldn't find a copy of The Sound and the Fury.
Sorry, I got it backwards, so we'll get it right.
He was writing back and forth to Faulkner, and he was asking questions about such and such as he was writing it.
And Faulkner said, I don't have a copy of the book, and for me to answer those questions, would you mind sending me your copy?
Well, Cowley didn't have a first printing either because he wrote somewhere that he had a whole lot of trouble finding a first edition of The Sound and the Fury because it was out of print.
So he sent Falkner his third printing.
It's from 31.
It was still old.
It was two years off the first printing.
He wasn't the first printing.
Who was he kidding?
He sent Falkner his own book.
And on the second free flyleaf, he put his own name, which he did in all his books.
But when Falkner and Cowley finished their correspondence, Falkner sent him two gifts.
One was one of his first copies of The Portable Faulkner that he received from Viking, and that's the one he inscribed that went for sale in that auction that I missed.
But the second one that he inscribed that I got from Cowley in Malcolm's last years was this copy, that when he had finished, he sent back to Cowley, Cowley's book, but this time it had
This inscription to Malcolm.
Let's read it.
To Malcolm Cowley, who beat me to what was to have been the leisurely pleasure of my old age, William Faulkner.
And what he meant by that simply was Faulkner always dreamed when he got older and lost his fire.
that he'd lost his fire, that he would put together his own compilation of his favorites.
And in fact, he's saying here, you beat me to what was to have been the leisurely pleasure of my old age.
Well, that's a very important inscription, isn't it?
Wonderful inscription.
But important, too.
It does have a biographical insight, I think.
I think that's the single most important thought inscription I think.
I agree.
Bob just said that.
Let's pick up on that.
Why do you say that?
That's the single most important Faulkner inscription.
I think that is, in part because of the significance of the portable Faulkner and what Cowley did for Faulkner's career and reputation.
And then it says a lot about how Faulkner felt about, I mean, he knew that Cowley had rendered him a great service.
And that was at a time when he couldn't pay his bills.
And so there's that.
It says a lot about Faulkner, but it also is that tribute from Faulkner to Cowley, this man that, in a sense, revived his career.
It also renders irrelevant the question of whether or not it's a first edition, doesn't it?
Yes, indeed.
It's a third printing, isn't that correct?
But printing at that point, of course, that's a book, but it takes on another dimension.
Now it's an archival item.
Well, that's another thing about L.D.'
's collection, the thoroughness with which he collects.
I've learned what I know about book collecting very little, but I knew nothing when I met L.D.
Anything I know I've learned from observing him.
But what's impressed me is he wants the second printings, the third printings, the whole run, as he says.
Most collectors, I understand, would just want first edition, first printings, met condition.
You really don't go for the foreign editions the way Carl did.
Carl went for those because he had such an obsessiveness in wanting things.
Always wanted mail coming to him, packages coming in.
Shit he could open.
And the distinction is, and I don't want you to put this into the record either, because I still qualify.
I love Carl as a human being.
If I'm going to get books, I ain't going to buy ten books that are all copies of each other.
I just went on record with you as showing you the copy that Malcolm, the copy of the portable Faulkner,
that Faulkner inscribed from Malcolm Cowley in 1948.
Remember I told you that out of that auction, what was it I said it was, the name of it?
Jonathan Goodwin.
Out of the Jonathan Goodwin auction, listen to this, it's a neat story.
Out of that one, I missed that great book.
And though I got eight or ten, my heart was broken, but I didn't have eight grand to spend.
I was buying the other ones for like $1,500, two grand.
That was still pretty good pops at that time.
Someone bought that book, and it was reputed on the coast for about $6,500 out of the auction, but by the time they paid the auction house and then the dealer who bought it for them, they paid about $8,000.
That was a whopper in the late 70s.
That book today is about a $60,000 book.
The book I've got was signed two years later in the only time Faulkner met Malcolm Cowley, and that was because Cowley took him home with him from New York.
He got real sick, Faulkner did, alcoholically sick that weekend,
Malcolm took him home to meet his wife and to stay at the house and to have him recover.
That's also the time that they wrote that wonderful thing, that little essay he wrote called... New England.
Yeah, what is it about New England?
A Guest's View of New England.
He wrote that.
In all places and four times.
A wonderful little travel piece about how he went up to the East Coast, went up to Connecticut in the autumn, in October.
and how beautiful it was.
And yet he wrote all about his perception of Yankees and what they're all about.
He signed a whole row of Malcolm's books at that time.
So the one I got, I got after all.
Isn't that ironic that where you think there's just one and generally there is, I'll be damned.
So I have a portable Faulkner.
Well, let me show you what else I got.
And this came out of Oxford, out of Roanoke itself.
If that wasn't enough to get the copy that Faulkner signed to...
to Cowley, how about having also, as a companion piece to that, when Malcolm received his free copies from Viking, the first thing he did was, naturally, to reciprocate and send Faulkner a signed copy of the book.
To William Faulkner, permanent admirer, Malcolm Cowley, May 1946.
Right on.
A pre-publication date of the book.
Now, you couldn't have two books neater.
more significant in book collecting than those two books.
Now, I got that out of Oxford, out of the Faulkner family.
I got the other one from Malcolm directly.
How did I get them?
They never came to a book dealer.
They never were going to.
And had they, I couldn't have afforded them.
Well, early on when I told you about the Vance Carter brooch story and how exciting that was and how it got me on the track, I'll be damned.
One of the only reasons I wasn't heartbroken of heartbrokens when I missed the one at the Jonathan Goodwin sale was because, in fact,
I did have an inscribed portable Faulkner, but it wasn't as significant as the one.
This was one that William signed for his cousin, Vance Carter Broach, from his cousin, William Faulkner.
Well, Vance traded me this book, and it's doubly inscribed, as so many in the later years were, on the title page, William Faulkner.
Oxford, Mississippi, 28 November 1947.
Doubly inscribed for the record means he's inscribed twice.
Once on the end sheet.
Once on the free front end paper.
On the free front end paper and on the half title of the title.
Oh, I didn't want to do what I just did.
What did you do?
I bent the page a little bit.
I'm not in carelessness.
He did this quite often.
He's going to go to the final.
You can talk later.
Okay, so anyway, that's another wonderful inscribed portable.
I want to show you one that I like even better than all of those.
I've got one, Nick, that I'm even more fond of.
Go ahead.
This is signed 730-78.
And this one is only a lowly, very beautiful dust jacket, very beautiful first edition that it says I paid $6.50 for at one point.
$6.50?
No, $6.50.
But it's inscribed for... I don't have that particular title in my department.
It's inscribed for L.D.
Brodsky, Malcolm Cowley.
73078.
So that's what I would call something.
That's book collecting to me.
All that one that I just showed you, there are four of those there.
That is book collecting.
Now there are other portables that I have.
I've got Client's copy of the portable.
I've got Jim Silver's copy.
I've got Bezerides' copy.
Who else?
We'd have to look in there.
I forgot.
I have an inscribed copy from Faulkner to his friend.
No, I don't.
I was going to say Phil Stone.
Delete that.
Skip that one line.
Let me show you some more exciting.
Does this give you a kick to watch this?
Because he gets excited.
Well, yeah, it does.
He'll tell you he's more interested in the books than I am.
Again, it's the letters and manuscripts.
No, but I mean when you see him get excited.
Oh, yeah.
Animation, excitement, enthusiasm.
I mean, do you have that kind of above?
Have you ever been a collector?
No, no.
Paperbacks are good enough for me.
You're not marking them, triple scored them, underlining them.
So does it amuse you to see this kind of obsession?
I don't think that's quite the right word.
That's not the right word.
I admire it.
It's not an interest I have.
Again, I tend to get more excited over the manuscript material, because that has more scholarly possibilities.
I love the books, and I've learned a lot about them, and watching L.D.
put them together, the collection together, and much of it, and build it, but... What, basically, is the Brotsky?
Those nine cases there?
Yeah, and around the corner in the first... So there are ten?
Yeah, right.
And there's more upstairs that we haven't had to put in here.
We've still got to do a lot of work in this room and put doors on these cases back here.
So this will incorporate Breitsky's stuff?
Will this whole room be Breitsky's stuff?
Well, there's a small, called the Harrison Collection back here.
He was a member of our Board of Regents, and he was kind of a dilettante book collector.
random, eclectic kind of, there's some good stuff in it, but it's not focused, and it's not very large, but that's the only other collection in here.
What was in here prior to the arrival of Wawrotsky's stuff?
Nothing.
Empty space.
I want to do one more rundown like this.
Really?
I wonder what happened was when Harrison wanted to give his small collection to the university, since we're not a research institution, have not been previously,
The family wanted to have a room to house the Harrison collection.
And so they furnished the room, and this room was here.
It was used, nobody ever came in here.
It just housed a few little... So the Harrison family funded this room, I gather.
In the 1950s, I guess.
And what was Harrison's first name?
He's over here on this plaque.
Charles.
See, we haven't done this for real, do you, yet?
When Harrison died in 1944, Charles Harrison, he was a local businessman.
Charles Luce Harrison, right.
And he was on the Board of Regents here.
And when this library was built in 68, the new library, they created this room to house this collection that he had given the university.
And it was seldom used.
And so this room, beautiful room, the family provided the furnishings and all, and it was built.
But then when we moved the Brodsky collection in, we had to do a lot of
renovation.
Why take the time to write it?
We had to add the security and the cases and so on to house the Brodsky collection.
I'm not going to show you a lot more, but I'm going to show you a few more.
I do want to see some manuscript stuff that's up there, too.
I'm going to let both of us show you some of those, even while I'm gone.
But I want to show you a couple more classic things.
because you will enjoy it.
They're all variants.
We're going to bring them out bibliographically.
The finest collection of British.
Yes, and one of them, they're all distinct.
They're all bibliographic anomalies, but I'm going to show you only one out of the whole group that is just absolutely my favorite.
I'm going to bring it over to you.
This is it.
Okay.
We have a finest copy of Sardarist.
What a piece of junk.
Look at that.
Oh, but now, what if you found something exciting in it, and then you said to yourself, if you're Carter Burden, maybe, oh, I'll send it out to the conservator and have a new one.
I'll buy another copy for a thousand bucks, and I'll just have them change the covers, and then I'll have a perfectly fine book, which is the impulse that drives a lot of collectors.
My feeling is that you leave a book intact, as it was, as an artifact.
This book is absolutely shabby.
It's been eaten up by mildew and bugs and all kinds of things.
It sat in the South for years, obviously in a very humid attic or something.
But when I found this by accident in a bookshop down in Jackson, I was very taken aback by this piece of shit.
I thought the book was going to be a $50 book, and as it turned out, they sold it to me for $200, which was okay because on the fly leaf it's inscribed by Faulkner.
It says, To Uncle John and Aunt Sue from Bill.
17 February 1929, doubly inscribed on the title page, William Faulkner, 19 Feb, 27, 29 of me.
$200?
Yeah.
I thought, okay, fair enough.
Maybe no one ever looked inside the book.
Can I help you?
The book is awful.
The condition of the book is awful.
The book is absolutely superb.
If there were nothing in it, $3.00.
Well, if it weren't a first edition, maybe 25 cents.
Maybe.
You know?
Yeah.
There really wasn't a second edition of that book.
Uncle John and Aunt, how do we spell it?
Sue.
Sue from Ville.
17th Feb 29th.
Pretty nice, huh?
Yeah, pretty nice.
So, there's a case where a lot of collectors would have passed on that book.
You really think... I am absolutely positive.
I've watched them do it.
Carter would not have bought that book five years ago.
Well, the association value, I mean, you have to be a moron not to recognize me.
Call it how you want it.
Bob and I have seen that time and time again.
Why did people not buy Emily Stone's collection for $50,000?
Well, a lot of the stuff was a little shabby looking.
Didn't look real nice.
And the movie scripts.
Nobody wanted those because that one wasn't a good script, Rob.
These two books look like pretty much junk out of Emily Stone's collection.
Nobody wanted to buy the scripts because there wasn't... Well, Fulton... Very few of his movies were ever filmed, I mean, if any, right?
Right, but he wrote a lot more.
No one wanted to pay Emily Stone $50,000, and she was thrilled to have $35,000, which busted my ass to put that together.
Only when I looked at that, I told you I valued the collection.
Here were just a bunch of random books that were Phil's books.
Only this one says in Bill Fulton's hand...
From Bill to Phil, Xmas, 1923, and Phil, characteristically, more than once would assign his name to that.
Why did he do a... He just thought a lot of himself.
He was really stuck on himself.
Some of the books we have have three signatures in them.
And, of course, he wanted to outdo Bill.
So he's in there twice.
But is that wonderful?
Well, that's a wonderful, wonderful book.
That's pre-Marble Fawn.
Here's a book that had a great effect.
Antic, A-N-T-I-C, Antic, by Elvis Huxley.
Yeah, and a very famous book still read.
Still a red book.
And influential on Faulkner.
Influential on Faulkner, and here's one even more influential.
Maybe I missed it, but why would he get a copy of a Huxley title?
Well, because he loved it.
And he thought Stone would love it.
Whose annotations are these in here?
Stone.
And all those books have wonderful stone annotations.
Let me tell you something about that little story.
I went back because I'm real thorough.
I had bought everything once I made the first visit, then I made a second visit to Emily.
Where are we going?
Down in Montgomery, Alabama in the 70s.
And then I said, Emily, I think I need to come down again.
You had once mentioned you had some books under the bed, but your back hurt and you couldn't move them, and I know I never saw them.
I flew down again.
It was about 300 bucks to fly down there.
Sure enough, I went through all the books on the shelf and nothing much.
I hadn't missed much there.
I said, the box you mentioned under the bed.
She pulled out all these books that are what I call the Stone Survivors.
But that was worth the trip, because there was Anna Kay, and here was a book that really influenced Faulkner when he was a young man, and it influenced everybody in the country.
It was called Juergen by James Branch Cabell.
Real significant book.
And here's this book.
Why is it spelled Juergen?
J-U-R-G-E-N.
By whom?
I don't know the title.
By James Branch Cabell.
C-A-B-E-L-L.
Only this one also was the second gift that apparently Faulkner gave to Phil at Christmas.
And he had one in his own library, signed William Faulkner, Roanoke, an earlier edition.
This might have been an 11th printing, as I recall, and Faulkner had the 9th, or this might be the 13th, and he had the 11th.
This is 1923.
You can tell how popular it was in the same year.
We were already up to the 13th printing.
It was real racy.
It was Rabelazian.
This is the 13th printing.
Faulkner has in his library the 11th printing.
That's an incredible book.
Out of that same box came a book that Faulkner really loved.
It was a very influential book in the teens called Some Imagist Poets.
It was the imagist manifesto.
It had people like Amy Lowell, Richard Aldington.
Let's see, some of the others are... Fletcher.
H.D.
H.D., right.
And here was Stone's underlined copy, but this was a book that Faulkner obviously had in his hand because Faulkner had done the labels, make labels, and had, we think, rebounded the book.
It was issued as a paperback, and the back binders are in there still, the wrappers are still in the book.
We think he bound it by hand, that's what Emily said, and that these were his labels on there, and that was in that box.
You know, but it really influenced him a lot.
Here's a book.
Oh, I took the wrong one out of the shelf there.
I pulled the wrong one.
It's just another inscribed copy.
And here's a copy that most collectors wouldn't buy, Nick, because it's a third print of The Sound and the Fury.
But isn't it wonderful because it's inscribed on the second free front end page for Mrs. Eva Newman-Gilmore, William Faulkner, Oxford Miss, 15 October 1935.
Faulkner inscriptions, let alone presentations, are exceedingly rare.
This is wonderful that it's a third printing.
Who gives a hoot?
except all your major collectors feel that if it's not a first printing, it's somehow tainted.
That's ridiculous.
The significance of that particular presentation is what?
Nothing.
Just that it's rare.
If you set aside the silent limited editions,
would you guess there may be no more than 500 Faulkner inscriptions?
I would say he probably didn't inscribe.
Hemingway inscribed thousands.
And there are probably almost 200 of those in this collection.
Right.
About 200?
Yes.
Of the known or the estimated Faulkner inscriptions.
This is the greatest Faulkner book collection in the world.
See, the part that I don't get excited about
As excited about it, I should say.
It's the best in the world.
As a popular book collection, this one is unrivaled.
You could put the others together.
In terms of signed inscriptions, you wouldn't have the number that are here.
If you combine the three other major Texas, Mississippi, Virginia.
I think I know why I didn't find that one, Bob.
Faulkner inscriptions, much less acquire them.
Do you start again with, it's remarkable?
It's remarkable that one individual could even locate that percentage of signed Faulkner books, much less acquire them.
Because Faulkner just didn't sign that many books in his lifetime, except, apart from the signed limited editions, which were done by... See, he felt that he had a sense that this was money in the bank.
I mean, Faulkner, the value of a book is greater if there were fewer...
Yes, indeed, he did.
And he really didn't like it.
He did.
That's all he had to trade on.
Didn't Alfred Krupp ask him once to inscribe a book to him?
He said no, or then he thought about it.
That may very well be the case.
And you're absolutely right.
He has written in letters we have that all he had to trade on were his manuscripts, his writing.
And he knew they'd be valuable.
He didn't attend autograph parties, he didn't have that many bestsellers, and he generally didn't sign books for funds.
See, there's only one signed limited Hemingway book.
Faulkner to his, you know, these are sign limiters and they want some money because... Well, these are, no, these are not that I'm doing on the sign limiters.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, I know what I'm saying, but these are not, obviously, but he did, what, perhaps half a dozen?
No, he did 12.
12, I mean, books.
Hemingway did just one.
Yeah.
And he, you know, and he probably, you know, thought that was a half-ass.
Well, they thought they had an audience for him, enough of an audience that would subscribe to those books.
Yeah, but he had a sense.
I think it indicated he knew that... His publishers asked him to do those sign limiters.
Is that right?
Those were their behests because they had an audience.
You could sell this book for $250, but you could sell a sign limited for $5.
And it's the same damn book bound up in a slightly more deluxe binding.
And all he had to do, they'd send him the sheets and he'd sign them.
He didn't mind doing that.
They sent him 10 free copies.
And they didn't even do that with Hemingway because Hemingway would sell enough copies of the trade edition.
That's right.
They needed to sign limiteds with Faulkner because he sold so poorly.
To make it more feasible for them to publish the book.
Let me show you a couple more things that I want to go at.
And I'm sort of bombarding you, but we don't have enough time.
This is another book.
I told you I showed you Unvanquished that came out of Faulkner's own library that was his own.
I showed you the Mississippi, the Miss Zilphia Gantt.
Here is another book that his early British publishers, Chateau and Windus, sent him.
This was the second book that was published by Chateau and Windus.
It was an English version, and this particular version has a little label in it that says, sample copy, not for sale.
This was an early bind-up of his second British publication, The Sound and the Fury.
Only this one has a real distinction to it.
This one was the copy that went to William from the publisher.
It was the sample copy, and it has in it
on the free front flyleaf and paper, William Faulkner, Oxford Miss, 8 May, 1931.
This was Faulkner's own personal shelf copy.
And he put his names in them like that and he kept them.
This came out of the Faulkner family.
What do you feel?
It blows me away.
It was his own bad damn book.
That's wonderful because it was his.
He held it just like I'm holding it now.
He opened it just like I'm doing now and he took his little, his pen and put his little signature in there with his place and his date because that is what he was.
He was William Faulkner of Oxford, Mississippi and he had a nice reputation at that point.
Wasn't he excited?
Here is his British publisher publishing his second book.
And here is his British publisher publishing his first book.
Only in the first book that they sent him, which he put in his library as his own copy, he felt very proud of this one.
This came out in 1930, the same year that he got married to Estelle Oldham Franklin.
And in this copy he wrote Estelle and William Faulkner, July 14th.
1930 that gives me goose pimples because what better book could you possibly have than Faulkner's first British publication of a book that he said ah my wife and I we don't have a child yet we have a home in Oxford we are now a family of two I showed you before when he put in his book we're a family of three his daughter you couldn't have a more beautiful book than this and it's his own copy and here he's saying it's not my library it's our library
It's not my book, it's our book, Estelle's and Mine.
That's a wonderful, wonderful book.
I mean, it was class.
Here's another one that's pretty classy.
When I went to Princeton, and I made a number of trips to visit Dorothy Cummins, who was Sax's wife, widow, one of the great books that she had in her collection was a book that Faulkner hadn't signed, but rather the
author of the book that was given by the author to Faulkner.
And it turned out that this book was called Ideas and Opinions, and it was a book that was published in 54, right about the time when Saxon, Dorothy, and Bill, who was visiting the Cumminses in Princeton, walked over a couple blocks to Albert Einstein's home.
And at that time, Einstein took his newly received published book, Ideas and Opinions, and inscribed on the flyleaf to Mr. Faulkner.
Without Obligo, A. Einstein.
Now that's my favorite book.
Now I have the dust jacket for that.
I haven't picked it up yet.
It's all ripped.
Faulkner held it.
Einstein held it.
Einstein held this book.
Faulkner held this book.
Pretty profound.
Ideas and Opinions by Albert Einstein.
Crown Publishers, huh?
Uh-huh.
One Nobel Prize winner to another.
Yeah.
There you go.
One Nobel.
I can feel the gamma rays coming into my hand.
Tell me.
It's eerie.
I think that and the Malcolm book are just the gems.
I don't know if you want to tell them what you've been offering for that book or not.
Yeah, I wish you would.
I now forgot.
What was it, like 70?
I forgot.
What did I tell you?
It was $50,000.
$50,000.
You thought you could get more, but he offered $50,000.
$50,000, that's right.
That was three years ago now.
That was a book dealer.
So they obviously had a... Yeah, but I don't want to get into that.
To Mr. Farmer... $50,000 is right.
I was offered $50,000.
But you said you thought he would pay more.
Well, I know now it would go for more.
I now was told by the same dealer that he could get $75,000 for it.
Without obligo.
What does that mean?
That means in the European tradition, you're not obliged to read it.
And it was his return to favor.
Yeah, Einstein, what comes after 84?
This is really exciting.
That is a book.
I've been spoiled.
I'm going to tell you a story about that one.
Go ahead.
There are so many great books here.
I've been spoiled.
But this one excites me.
This one can still generate the excitement.
I got a story to tell you about this.
I met Jim Silver, and Jim was living with a woman, and I went and stayed with him.
Go ahead, you can tell.
I stayed with him, and I got to know Jim real well.
And I wanted to buy some things from Jim.
The lady who he was living with had said, I need to come down and visit Jim, because he's an interesting person, and he knew Pappy.
So what happened, the lady he was living with was Victoria Johnson.
And Victoria was the daughter of Victoria Fieldin, who was Faulkner's stepdaughter.
She's a dear friend of mine, Victoria Fieldin.
I'm sorry, Victoria Johnson.
And Victoria said, come on down and meet Jim.
He's here at the house living with me.
They were in Cape Coral.
It was in 1980, I guess.
So I came down and I spent three or four days and I had a great lot of fun.
Jim was a wonderful man, great sense of humor, very bright man.
And Jim had a bunch of things, some Faulkner manuscripts, some inscribed books.
And
Jim had a book sitting in a hefty bag, one of those little Ziploc bags, rather.
Not a hefty, a Ziploc, sitting on his dresser.
And I happened to look at it one day.
I said, Jim, what is this book?
He said, oh, that's an interesting book.
It's a book by Albert Einstein.
He said it was a book that Pappy gave me.
And he said, oh, I just got it back in the mail.
I had sent it to someone.
I had talked with someone about it, and I said I had it.
They said they'd like to buy it.
And I sent it to him.
I don't have the dust jacket here right now.
I'm having it back, linen-backed right now so that it won't fall apart.
It was shabby like the Malcolm Cowley portable book was shabby.
He said, I sent it.
I just got it back.
That's why it's sitting here.
It's still in the Ziploc bag.
He said, I just opened it up.
It came back to me.
He said, I'd offered it to a man for $200.
And he said, the man sent it back to me because he said the dust jacket was all messed up.
I said, oh, can I see that book?
And I opened it up, and it said to Mr. Faulkner, without obligo, I told you I got this book from, I'm going to get this right.
I'm going to get the whole story right.
I told it to you all.
Did I tell you I got this from the Cummins family?
Yes.
Let me correct it now that I'm talking out loud.
Because I know how it got mixed up, I'll tell you.
I'll tell you what's really wonderful.
And I know now where the synapse is mixed up.
So fix it in your, because that's a neat story too.
So I said, can I see it?
He said, I'd send it to this man.
He said, of course you can.
So I looked at it, and it blew me away.
I couldn't believe we were sitting there.
I couldn't believe someone had refused to buy it for $200 because the dust jacket was shabby.
So here it was.
He said, would you like it?
I said, absolutely.
Who was this offering to?
Jim Silver.
He was the head of the English department at Ole Miss.
The history department, sorry.
He was fucking his good friend.
No, he had it.
Why didn't he keep it?
He had all kinds of stuff.
He had a lot of Faulkner stuff.
He knew Faulkner real well.
That's why I went down to visit him.
I bought all kinds of manuscripts and artifacts from him.
But this book had just come back just like the day before I got down there.
And I said, oh, I'd love to have that book.
Now, let me tell you why I mixed up the story.
When I was up in Princeton... Is that what you got it for?
$200?
$200.
When I was in Princeton... And he was pleased to death.
He loved having $200.
When I was in Princeton on one of my trips, down came a book...
Down came a book with all the other Faulkner books.
By the way, Sacks was dearest friends.
Sacks and Dorothy were dearest friends of Albert Einstein.
They lived like five blocks away or something like that.
They've got inscribed Einstein.
She does all over her house.
Photographs and things like that in all the books.
Out of the bookshelf where a lot of the Faulkners were, it was actually a hutch.
She brought down a book that was exactly this duplicate.
And I looked at it.
That's why I got mixed up.
It said the same thing.
To Sacks...
Cummins, without obligo, A. Einstein, 54.
And I said, oh, how can this be?
I said, you're not going to believe it.
I told her the whole story about how I had that same book.
She said, oh, well, Sachs, and that's when I learned, Sachs and Bill and I went over that day to visit with Albert and
He signed one book for each of the boys.
She said, each of the boys.
She called Saxon Bill Boy.
I tried to get it.
And she wouldn't part with that.
That's how I got mixed up.
Is that still kind of on your wish list?
Well, it would be if I pursued it.
I don't know what's happened at Dona.
I haven't kept up with it.
I'll pursue it.
Don't you pursue it.
I want to pursue it.
There are certain things that belong in certain places.
Yeah, it would belong there.
It would be wonderful.
Anyway, I had my hands on that book, too.
Same inscription.
But this one, of course, is precious.
But that's one of those examples where I told you the more traveling I did, the more stuff came together.
There was a story from two different places, from Silver and from Doe, about the day that they went over.
And there's more to the story that I'm not telling you.
Did Faulkner give Einstein any books inscribed?
No.
He went over another day and Doe told me how he just sat there silent.
He was absolutely taciturn.
Wouldn't say a word.
Faulkner?
Yeah, Faulkner.
And when they got back to the Cummins house, Doe said, Bill, you were rude.
Why were you so rude to that man?
He said, well, what would I have to say to a man like Albert Einstein?
That was before this.
That was an earlier visit.
But
You know, there were all kinds of interesting stories.
Fartner was real silent, you know that.
He was very uncommunicated.
It would be nice if he inscribed the book and gave it to Albert Einstein.
It would have been, but I don't believe that would have ever happened, no.
It would have surfaced by now soon.
I think Dole would have told me.
And probably it would be in the Princeton collections anyway.
Isn't that where Einstein stuff is?
Oh, I've got a great story to tell you about that, but I don't think I'm going to do it now because I'm running out of energy and steam.
I need to go up and visit Bob.
Let me leave you with one more book and then I won't even do those.
There's a bunch of inscribed.
This we could do the same number on.
Let me stay on it one minute.
Let me show you one thing.
What do you call this little drill that you're doing with these books?
With you?
I haven't done this in so long.
I guess that's why I'm so wired.
You'll have to forgive me.
I don't do this drill.
I haven't touched the books in how long?
A year?
These old friends of mine.
Here's a book, Clean Up Books' copy.
Here's Ruth Ford's copy.
So you haven't touched these books in a year?
Uh-huh.
That's the first time in a year.
Yeah, you got me.
Are you getting a kick out of this?
Well, what do you think?
It's a blow-a-mule.
Yeah, that's a rhetorical.
Blow-a-mule.
Let me show you something.
Put the machines up.
I'll tell you during my trip.
I mean, one of the great pleasures for me is to see these collectors finally get into their collections.
Let me run a number for you here.
Just watch it like this.
It's true.
Memo to Sax Cummins from author to editor.
We never always saw eye to eye, but we were always looking at the same thing.
Yeah, let's, can I hold that?
Sure, but I'm going to give you the one to hold.
It's the most significant one to hold.
You notice I get a kick out of it.
You tell me.
Ask me some of the books I've held around the world in the last year.
Oh, yeah.
Tell me why that one.
This is a kick from me.
That one's a freak out, man.
That one's to the dedicatee.
Oh, my goodness.
Now, what does it say?
To Sachs and Dorothy.
For Sachs, S-A-X-U.
For Sachs and Dorothy with love.
And Dorothy with love, comma, with love.
Bill Faulkner, not dated.
See if it is on the title page.
And then we go to the title page.
And it's William Faulkner.
And what's, where is that?
11 June 1957, Princeton.
Princeton, 11 June 1957.
Is that one or seven?
Seven.
Actually, two years after.
Big Woods by William Fawker.
And the dedicatee, we can find it.
Oh, I love it.
I won't put this on the tape.
I'll just write it down.
Memo to Saks.
Memo to colon.
Saks Cummins.
C-O-M-M-I-N-S.
What did I say?
C-U?
No, you didn't say it.
C-O-M-M-I-N-S.
Yeah.
From colon author to colon editor.
We never always saw eye to eye, but we were always looking at the same thing.
Isn't that really just extraordinary?
You know what?
She had the little piece of paper and couldn't find it.
The manuscript for that dedication, and we've never found it.
She had it.
It wasn't in the paper.
Remind me on the way on the drive home to tell you about the story.
about how I resurrected this group from the Firestone Library.
Resurrected or diverted?
How I pulled the rug right out from under the Flintstones Firestone Library.
Because I think they'd like to have it.
I'll tell you.
That was a doozy.
Let me show you a little more run, and then I've got to go up to hell for a minute.
Can I just write?
Yeah, sure.
Actually, I can get this out.
Let me just show you this.
Will I be a compass to any of these things if you're ever charged with it?
I ain't charged with anything unethical.
I just did it a little with a little chicanery, a little good healthy American chicanery.
These are wonderful stories.
That one's to Saks.
How did you get the one from Virginia?
Don't forget that.
Oh, that's nice.
Look at that one.
That's an inscribed copy of Big Woods to Saks and Dorothy.
Here's one to Phil Stone with love.
Phil, inscribed.
Let's keep going a minute.
Here's one to Aunt Bama with love.
William Faulkner.
Who could ever pull out books like this of Falkner?
We're so spoiled here, Bob and I are.
There aren't this many books anywhere in the world like this.
Here's another one.
To Sister, that's who he called his daughter, Victoria, because she was really like a sister to his own daughter, Jill.
She was his stepdaughter, Victoria.
To Sister and her husband, Bill, Bill Fielden.
To Sister and Bill was, well, happy.
All right?
I'm going to let Bob show you some of the manuscripts while I go up the hill.
No, I didn't tell him any of that.
Look at this one.
You'll like that.
And then I'm going to do you one more and I'm going to leave you.
Malcolm Cowley, this is the copy from which I reviewed Big Woods in the New York Times Sunday Book Review, asterisk, October 16, 1955.
Note the revisions of stories in this book.
Dash, skillful but not always successful, period.
I think he spoiled Delta Autumn cover, the last story in this book, Malcolm Cowley.
Malcolm Cowley, Malcolm Cowley.
He wrote to himself on this.
No, no, he wrote that for me.
I had him right there.
Oh, is that right?
He wrote that.
That's kind of nice.
Oh, you had him do that.
I said I had him do that.
Hold on a minute, I'll tell you.
Yeah, I mean, you sat him down and said, do this.
No, I asked him if he would.
I asked him.
These were his shelf copies.
Mm-hmm.
And the reason I had him do it is he said, I had a bunch of these that were my review copies.
They didn't have their slips in anymore.
He said, I usually threw the slips away.
He only had one or two that had the slips.
I said, on those that were your review copies, and he knew, I said, would you write a note in so that you'll confirm them for the future?
And so he did that on four or five of those.
This may be the last book Buckner inscribed.
The reverse.
We are holding what we believe to be the final book that Faulkner inscribed as the Reavers, William Faulkner, and this is what?
Is that Oxford?
Oxford, Mississippi, 12 June 1962.
He died three weeks later.
And this is to Stone.
And this is to Emily and Stowe from Bill.
And the story here is that Faulkner over the years faithfully inscribed a book to Phil Stone.
Every time a new title would come out, he would take the copy to Stone.
But in the last years of Faulkner's life, Stone would not speak to Faulkner because they had had serious disagreements over the race question.
And the story was when Faulkner would take his new book to Phil Stone's law office, as he did this one to deliver it to his friend,
And when Faulkner would walk in the front door, Phil Stone would walk out the back because Phil wouldn't have any... As we know from the letters in this collection, Stone was a racist and he disagreed strongly with Faulkner's stand on immigration.
But he still accepted the inscribed books.
That's right.
And Faulkner would leave the books with the secretary, leave them there.
And this may be the last one that he inscribed.
So there's a rather poignant... The inscriptions that I like are those that have the stories behind them, particularly with Stone.
Mosquitoes.
That's the book I spoke to you of.
Bob, these go off the bar.
Oh, wow.
This is extraordinary.
This is a pretty long inscription.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight.
That's about as long an inscription as you're going to find from Flockler.
Oh, absolutely.
Eight lines.
To my... I can't read it.
To Tony?
Yeah.
Know what it says?
To Tony.
I guess.
I'll show you.
I heard they something.
Well, Faulkner's real hard to read.
Says to Tony, who can't remember, and neither could he.
Because if you check this against the published version of the needleboats at San Sabah, you'll find, but what you can see here from the appearance of the hand, which isn't so neat, he was drunk on his ass when he did this.
And they were both reciting poetry.
They both obviously love poetry.
Can you try and read a little bit of it?
This is the inscribed muskios.
Why don't you let me get the... Okay, never mind, don't bother.
Who did he inscribe it to?
He inscribed it to Tony Boutita, who was the editor of Contempo, a magazine that published Faulkner.
Okay.
But it's a poem, is what it is, to Tony, who can't remember.
But the wonderful, funny thing about it...
As I said, is they were trying to banter it back and forth and none of them could verbalize it.
We have another time.
That's the item you brought from Carl's collection.
That's right.
We have, if you find, and you might in that pass, it's in a long folder, that series that we, do you remember the letter we had?
Any man who could have paid 55 grand for the living guts was an idiot to pass up mosquitoes for 23.
Bob will go on, I'll be back.
Okay.
Probably here.
I'll be back.
We were talking about Carl's, Bob and I were talking about Carl Peterson's inscription to L.D.
It was for L.D., who's Faulkner collecting knows no slack season, Carl.
And you said there's a play on slack there.
Yeah, when Carl wrote this for L.D., L.D.
was working for his father's clothing company.
business and was working outlet stores, stocking outlet stores with slacks and jackets.
That's cute.
So there was a play on the word there.
Yeah.
Okay, I'm just... I guess I should try and find a copy of that book.
I'm going to shut this off and start a new tape because this is just about over.